# KS_CodeFile
Predictive Analysis for the Success of Kickstarter Campaigns Using Machine Learning and Data Analysis

Group 20 

Motivation:
Kickstarter is an online crowdfunding platform used by artists and entrepreneurs, called project leaders and creators, to collect money from the public, called backers, to launch their ideas and merchandises. Project creators determine a minimum goal amount and a deadline, and backers can choose whichever project they are interested in and pledge a certain amount of money in exchange for rewards or experiences.

There is a pseudo-assurance contract in place such that no funds are collected when the minimum amount is not reached. Kickstarter applies a 5% fee for all funds raised, and they do not claim ownership to any project created through their platform.

Our group main goal is to create better analysis in order to help the backers and creators. Pre-determining the traits of successful kickstarter projects such as start date, topic, duration, keywords, and more will help backers filter for better projects, and help creators  improve the appeal of the project towards backers and optimize project duration. 

Data:
	The original dataset was collected from Kaggle, with values for projects from 2009 - 2016. Values included from 2009 to 2016, with elements including project titles, categories, launched and end dates, countries, and amounts of money pledged. The data was conveniently provided as a CSV file, however, it did not provide project descriptions, which we sought in order to perform natural language processing analysis and improve our model. Therefore, we had to resort to webscraping using Python. Through webscraping, we were able to synthesize project descriptions from the Kickstarter website using the data provided by Kaggle. We compiled a complete set of data that we were able to analyze with machine learning models. 
	The code for the webscraping will be provided as part of the code file along with R/Python materials. 
Filtering and further manipulation:
We filtered out data for only U.S. campaigns to simplify potential confounding variables of cultural, linguistic, and sociological differences. Additionally, we took away campaigns that were cancelled or shut down by Kickstarter in order to create a strictly binary model between a truly successful and a truly unsuccessful model.
	Through NLP, we used a sparsity of 0.99 in terms in the title, and 0.98 for terms in the main campaign message after filtering out for stop words and stemming. We also used 70% of the data as a the training set, and 30% as the test set. 

Analysis:
	For analysis, our group began by creating dataframes based on natural language processing of the campaign messages and titles. We then used the NLP matrices to feed, along with other variables in several cases, in modeling. Our group modelled the data using neural networks, logistic regression, stepwise regression, random forest with cross-validation, and neural networks. 
Our baseline accuracy was around 58% through a Naive Bayes model of the data. For random forest with ross-validation, our results were an accuracy of 62.4% with an optimal mtry of 5. For neural networks, after trying different levels of hidden layers and activation functions, our final accuracy was 67% on a model with a single hidden layer and ReLU. We see that the best model is neural networks, and our model still has room for exploration in terms of trying other combinations of hidden layer numbers and units and activation functions. 
For logistic regression and stepwise regression, we had to adjust our dataframe due to the enormous processing power and processing time required. With originally the entire dataset, with all pre-arranged NLP data from 2009 to 2016, our stepwise regression would be taking more than three days to fully run. Thus, we cut down our dataset into the years 2012 to 2016, which we believe would still provide us with a sufficient model due to the still enormous number of datapoints retained (214,241). For these models, we obtained a baseline accuracy of 58%. For logistic model, 194 variables were considered by the model, with accuracy of 58% (32395 + 2065) / (32395 + 2065 + 20499 + 934) = 61.6535%. For stepwise regression, we used 300 steps after cutting down from 1000 and 500 due to oversized processing power and processing time. With 51 variables considered by the model, we generated a model accuracy of (402 + 81) / (402 + 81 + 218 + 77) = 62.08226%. We acknowledge that the models could be potentially be much improved with higher number of steps and more data points. 
Impact:
This project will allow potential backers to see a preliminary prediction of whether a project they are planning to fund will be successful. While many people are generous enough to back projects liberally, often insured by Kickstarter's protection to refund all donations should a project fail, many more Kickstarter users back projects solely for their rewards. To eliminate uncertainty and unnecessary anxiety, this project can ease those users of the doubt that they carry. Additionally, this project will create an interface that displays predictions of success for project creators, which may allow them to take measures to minimize risk and reconsider the structures of their projects.
For a larger impact, if our modeling with NLP features is highly predictive, our insights may also be transferable to campaigns and ads in general for more marketable messaging. In terms of further areas to explore with the data, we can split the model by categories in order to refine cross-category differences; as an example, campaigns related to opening restaurants may have different keywords from campaigns related to health treatments or the music industry. If possible, it would also be interesting to look at data available on backers such as sex, location and age in order to understand what kinds of project target or lead to greater success in different demographic groups.

